
How do I create a sub shell in Unix?
Just put the commands to be run in the sub-shell inside parentheses. 
This causes bash to start the commands as a separate process.

OpenSSH is the premier connectivity tool for remote login with the SSH protocol. 
It encrypts all traffic to eliminate eavesdropping, connection hijacking, and other attacks. 
In addition, OpenSSH provides a large suite of secure tunneling capabilities, several authentication 
methods, and sophisticated configuration options.

expr command
The expr command in Unix evaluates a given expression and displays its corresponding output. 
It is used for:
-> Basic operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and modulus on integers.
-> Evaluating regular expressions, string operations like substring, length of strings etc.

Set Command
It is used to set or unset specific flags and settings inside the shell environment. 
(determines the behavior of the script and helps in executing the tasks without any issue) 
It can be used to change or display the shell attributes and parameters. 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/shell-scripting-set-command/

bc command
bc command is used for command line calculator. It is similar to basic calculator 
by using which we can do basic mathematical calculations. 
bc command and expr command for doing arithmetic calculations.
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/bc-command-linux-examples/

test command
The test command compares one element against another and returns true or false. 
The test command takes an EXPRESSION as an argument. 
After calculating the EXPRESSION, the test returns a value to the bash variable “$?”. 
If the value is 0, then the expression evaluation was true. 
If the value is 1, then the expression evaluation was false.
https://linuxhint.com/bash-test-command/

Subshell
Whenever you run a shell script, it creates a new process called subshell and your script will get 
executed using a subshell.
A Subshell can be used to do parallel processing.
https://linuxhandbook.com/subshell/






